README.md, before:

# Contributing to Ploomber

Ploomber is a big community of data enthusiasts pushing the boundaries of Data Science and Machine Learning tooling. We pride ourselves on trying crazy things (we ❤️ running notebooks in production!) to make data analysis more fun and enjoyable.

Whatever your skillset is, you can contribute to our mission. So whether you're a beginner or an experienced professional, you're welcome to join us on this journey!

Your contributions will be open-source and available to everyone. It's a great way to showcase your skills and advance your career.

Here are a few things we need help with (in no particular order):

- [❤️ Share the Ploomber love](#%EF%B8%8F-share-the-ploomber-love)
- [Coding](#-coding)
- Writing
    - [Blog posts](#%EF%B8%8F-writing-blog-posts)
    - [Technical Tutorials](#%EF%B8%8F-writing-technical-tutorials)
    - [Editing](#%EF%B8%8F-writing-editing)
    - [Technical Documentation](#%EF%B8%8F-writing-technical-documentation)
- Speaking
    - [Recorded Tutorials](#-speaking-recorded-tutorials)
    - [Conferences](#-speaking-conferences)
- Community
    - [Answering Questions on Slack](#-community-answering-questions-on-slack)
    - [Run Events](#-community-run-events)
    - [Feedback](#-community-feedback)
- [Other](#other)


## ❤️ Share the Ploomber love
Helps us spread the word about our product to everyone you know.

[Click here to share on Twitter](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=Check%20out%20%40Ploomber.%20They%27re%20amazing%21&url=https://github.com/ploomber/ploomber)

[Click here to share on LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/sharing/share-offsite/?url=https://github.com/ploomber/ploomber)

## 💻 Coding
We have tons of open GitHub issues! From bug fixes to building entirely new features. Our users will greatly appreciate your help!

[See beginner-friendly open GitHub issues across all repositories.](https://github.com/issues?q=org%3Aploomber+is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22)

[See open GitHub issues across all repositories.](https://github.com/issues?q=org%3Aploomber+is%3Aopen++is%3Aissue)

## ✍️ Writing: Blog Posts
A big part of our work is reaching as many practitioners as possible. We maintain a pretty active [blog](https://ploomber.io/blog/) and often publish on platforms like Medium, dev.to, Hashnode and [KDnuggets.](https://www.kdnuggets.com/)

[Join us as a guest blog post: pitch us your idea now!](https://github.com/ploomber/contributing/issues/new?title=Blog%20post%20idea)

## ✍️ Writing: Technical Tutorials
We maintain a repository with [examples](https://github.com/ploomber/projects) that our community uses to get started quickly. Add an example to the repository: pitch us your idea now!

[Write a technical tutorial: pitch us your idea now!](https://github.com/ploomber/contributing/issues/new?title=Tutorial%20idea)

## ✍️ Writing: Editing
Writing is hard. If you have experience editing technical content, we'd love your help. 

[Volunteer as an editor!](https://github.com/ploomber/contributing/issues/new?title=I%20can%20help%20editing)

## ✍️ Writing: Technical Documentation
We can always have better [documentation.](https://docs.ploomber.io/en/latest/) If you find a typo or have editing suggestions let us know!

[Ping us about an issue in the documentation!](https://github.com/ploomber/contributing/issues/new?title=Documentation%20feedback)

## 🎙 Speaking: Recorded Tutorials
We have a lot of content in our [blog](https://ploomber.io/blog/) and [example projects](https://github.com/ploomber/projects) that we want to transform into video tutorials. [Here's an example.](https://youtu.be/37NIM3RSMz4)

[Volunteer to create a recorded tutorial!](https://github.com/ploomber/contributing/issues/new?title=I%20can%20help%20recording%20a%20tutorial)

## 🎙 Speaking: Conferences
Presenting at conferences is a great way to meet new people, grow your network and advance your career. While you don't need permission from us to speak about Ploomber, we can help you prepare a good proposal. We have presented at conferences like PyData Global, EuroPython, JupyterCon, ODSC, SciPy, and more!

[Volunteer to speak at a conference!](https://github.com/ploomber/contributing/issues/new?title=I%20can%20speak%20at%20a%20conference)

## 👥 Community: Answering Questions on Slack
Our Slack community is a welcoming place for people to share ideas (even the craziest ones!) and ask questions. You're more than welcome to join and help us foster our community.

[Join our community now!](https://github.com/ploomber/contributing/issues/new?title=I%20can%20speak%20at%20a%20conference)

## 👥 Community: Run Events
Do you run in-person or online events for the data community? We have some budget for sponsorships. And we're always happy to speak at your meetup!

[Tell us about your event.](mailto:contact@ploomber.io) (shoot us an email at [contact@ploomber.io](mailto:contact@ploomber.io))

## 👥 Community: Feedback
Our mission is to build tools that all data practitioners worldwide love and use daily. So feedback is essential for us. Tell us what's missing in your current toolset and how we can improve your work (our community can build it!)

[Tell us what's missing in your toolset.](https://github.com/ploomber/contributing/issues/new?title=Something%20that%20is%20missing%20on%20my%20toolset)

## Other

Do you have any other ideas? [Let us know!](https://github.com/ploomber/contributing/issues/new?title=Idea) (or shoot us an email at [contact@ploomber.io](mailto:contact@ploomber.io))

Commit message:

links from readme to community-contributions

README.md, after:

# Contributing to Ploomber

Ploomber is a big community of data enthusiasts pushing the boundaries of Data Science and Machine Learning tooling. We pride ourselves on trying crazy things (we ❤️ running notebooks in production!) to make data analysis more fun and enjoyable.

Whatever your skillset is, you can contribute to our mission. So whether you're a beginner or an experienced professional, you're welcome to join us on this journey!

Your contributions will be open-source and available to everyone. It's a great way to showcase your skills and advance your career.

Here are a few things we need help with (in no particular order):

- [❤️ Share the Ploomber love](#%EF%B8%8F-share-the-ploomber-love)
- [Coding](#-coding)
- Writing
    - [Blog posts](#%EF%B8%8F-writing-blog-posts)
    - [Technical Tutorials](#%EF%B8%8F-writing-technical-tutorials)
    - [Editing](#%EF%B8%8F-writing-editing)
    - [Technical Documentation](#%EF%B8%8F-writing-technical-documentation)
- Speaking
    - [Recorded Tutorials](#-speaking-recorded-tutorials)
    - [Conferences](#-speaking-conferences)
- Community
    - [Answering Questions on Slack](#-community-answering-questions-on-slack)
    - [Run Events](#-community-run-events)
    - [Feedback](#-community-feedback)
- [Other](#other)


> # Info
> For a compilation of community contributions, [see here](community-contributions.md). If you created or found something, please open a Pull Request!

## ❤️ Share the Ploomber love
Helps us spread the word about our product to everyone you know.

[Click here to share on Twitter](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=Check%20out%20%40Ploomber.%20They%27re%20amazing%21&url=https://github.com/ploomber/ploomber)

[Click here to share on LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/sharing/share-offsite/?url=https://github.com/ploomber/ploomber)

## 💻 Coding
We have tons of open GitHub issues! From bug fixes to building entirely new features. Our users will greatly appreciate your help!

[See beginner-friendly open GitHub issues across all repositories.](https://github.com/issues?q=org%3Aploomber+is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22)

[See open GitHub issues across all repositories.](https://github.com/issues?q=org%3Aploomber+is%3Aopen++is%3Aissue)

## ✍️ Writing: Blog Posts
A big part of our work is reaching as many practitioners as possible. We maintain a pretty active [blog](https://ploomber.io/blog/) and often publish on platforms like Medium, dev.to, Hashnode and [KDnuggets.](https://www.kdnuggets.com/)

[Join us as a guest blog post: pitch us your idea now!](https://github.com/ploomber/contributing/issues/new?title=Blog%20post%20idea)

## ✍️ Writing: Technical Tutorials
We maintain a repository with [examples](https://github.com/ploomber/projects) that our community uses to get started quickly. Add an example to the repository: pitch us your idea now!

[Write a technical tutorial: pitch us your idea now!](https://github.com/ploomber/contributing/issues/new?title=Tutorial%20idea)

## ✍️ Writing: Editing
Writing is hard. If you have experience editing technical content, we'd love your help. 

[Volunteer as an editor!](https://github.com/ploomber/contributing/issues/new?title=I%20can%20help%20editing)

## ✍️ Writing: Technical Documentation
We can always have better [documentation.](https://docs.ploomber.io/en/latest/) If you find a typo or have editing suggestions let us know!

[Ping us about an issue in the documentation!](https://github.com/ploomber/contributing/issues/new?title=Documentation%20feedback)

## 🎙 Speaking: Recorded Tutorials
We have a lot of content in our [blog](https://ploomber.io/blog/) and [example projects](https://github.com/ploomber/projects) that we want to transform into video tutorials. [Here's an example.](https://youtu.be/37NIM3RSMz4)

[Volunteer to create a recorded tutorial!](https://github.com/ploomber/contributing/issues/new?title=I%20can%20help%20recording%20a%20tutorial)

## 🎙 Speaking: Conferences
Presenting at conferences is a great way to meet new people, grow your network and advance your career. While you don't need permission from us to speak about Ploomber, we can help you prepare a good proposal. We have presented at conferences like PyData Global, EuroPython, JupyterCon, ODSC, SciPy, and more!

[Volunteer to speak at a conference!](https://github.com/ploomber/contributing/issues/new?title=I%20can%20speak%20at%20a%20conference)

## 👥 Community: Answering Questions on Slack
Our Slack community is a welcoming place for people to share ideas (even the craziest ones!) and ask questions. You're more than welcome to join and help us foster our community.

[Join our community now!](https://github.com/ploomber/contributing/issues/new?title=I%20can%20speak%20at%20a%20conference)

## 👥 Community: Run Events
Do you run in-person or online events for the data community? We have some budget for sponsorships. And we're always happy to speak at your meetup!

[Tell us about your event.](mailto:contact@ploomber.io) (shoot us an email at [contact@ploomber.io](mailto:contact@ploomber.io))

## 👥 Community: Feedback
Our mission is to build tools that all data practitioners worldwide love and use daily. So feedback is essential for us. Tell us what's missing in your current toolset and how we can improve your work (our community can build it!)

[Tell us what's missing in your toolset.](https://github.com/ploomber/contributing/issues/new?title=Something%20that%20is%20missing%20on%20my%20toolset)

## Other

Do you have any other ideas? [Let us know!](https://github.com/ploomber/contributing/issues/new?title=Idea) (or shoot us an email at [contact@ploomber.io](mailto:contact@ploomber.io))
